docs: chip styleguide (#904)
siemens/ix: packages/documentation/docs/controls/_chip_styleguide.md

Chips are components used to display small pieces of information in a compact and visually appealing manner. Typically, chips contain a concise label and might contain an icon. They can be clickable and closable.

![Chip overview](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1149%3A41643&mode=design&t=ruQOzpPQJMKwnk8f-1)
 
1. Container 
2. Label text 
3. Icon
4. Close button

## Variants
Chip variants allow designers to apply different colors based on their purpose, importance, or context within the interface. Chip variants are typically used to convey different levels of importance, classes, or status to users.

Multiple chip variants are available: 

- **Primary**: Variant for high visual emphasis

> - **State-related variants**: Alarm, critical, warning, success, info, neutral

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **State-related variants**: Alarm, critical, warning, success, info and neutral
```

> - **Custom**: Custom variant that offers the possibility to set the background and the label color. We typically use this variant if chips need to visualize a high number of different categories. The custom variant doesn't allow color specification for hover and active states of chips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Custom**: Offers the possibility to set the background and the label color. We typically use this variant for chips that visualize a high number of different categories. The custom variant doesn't allow color specification for hover and active states.
```

![Chip variants](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1201%3A9512&mode=design&t=ruQOzpPQJMKwnk8f-1)

## Options
- **Active**: Specifies the interactivity of the chip. When set to false, user input such as mouse-over and keyboard navigation are disabled and the close button isn't visible.

> - **Background**: Set a custom color for chip background. In our application, we use this option when more flexibility in styling the chip is required. Only available for the chip custom variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Background**: Set a custom background color. Use this option when more flexibility in styling the chip is required. Only available for the chip custom variant.
```

- **Outline**: Used for lower visual emphasis

> - **Closable**: Clicking the X symbol removes the entire chip. However, this feature is only applicable to active chips, ensuring that users can easily remove specific chips when necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Closable**: When set the chip will contain a close button that will remove the entire chip when clicked. However, this feature is only applicable to active chips, ensuring that users can easily remove specific chips when necessary.
```

- **Icon**: Chips can, but don't have to, include an icon within the element. The icon is positioned before the chip's label.
- **Color**: Custom font color and icon color for chip allows users to specify a unique font color in combination with a custom background color. However, this option is only applicable when the variant is set to 'custom'. When choosing a custom font and icon color, it is important to assure a good contrast with the background color.

## Behavior 

- **Reactive**: Chips can react or change their appearance or behavior based on user actions. For example, updates occur as a response to system actions, providing real-time information about changes or events happening within the system.
- **Multi-selection**: Chips can visualize multi-selection and filter actions helping users to easily identify and understand their choices.

> - **Placement**: We typically place chips inline with other objects to inform about their state, within tables or grouped together to show selected options and filters. We don't place chips within input and filter components. These components provide their own variation of the chip component, the input chip. Currently, input chips are not not implemented as independent components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Placement**: We typically place chips inline with other objects to inform about their state, within tables or grouped together to show selected options and filters. We don't place chips within input and filter components. These components provide their own variation of the chip component, the input chip. Currently, input chips are not implemented as independent components.
```

- **Dismiss**: When users click on the close button, the chip is dismissed from the list or interface. The dismissed chip is removed visually, providing a sense of completion or removal.

## States  

> Chips can take a default, hover, focused or active state. The states vary in background color. An exception exist for the custom chip variant. Here, the specified colors for font and background are applied to all states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chips can take a default, hover, focused or active state. The states vary in background color. An exception exists for the custom chip variant. Here, the specified colors for font and background are applied to all states.
```

![Chip states](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1246%3A6190&mode=design&t=GHOok90R6TcaUrYi-1)

## Dos and Don'ts: 

- Do use chips for tagging and categorization, allowing users to easily organize and filter content. 

> - Do ensure proper color contrast between the chip background and the text/icon when using custom variant of the chips to improve readability. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do ensure proper color contrast between the chip background and the text/icon when using the custom variant to improve readability. 
```

- Do consider the spacing of chips to ensure they are easy to tap or click on mobile and desktop interfaces.
- Don't overuse chips, as it can lead to a cluttered interface and overwhelm users.

> - Don`t use different styles for chips with similar purposes or meanings to avoid creating inconsistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't use different styles for chips with similar purposes or meanings to avoid creating inconsistency.
```

> - Don't use chips if no interaction with the chip is offered. Use pills instead.

Reviewer: Add link to ix-pill docs?

Reviewer 2: I have addded  the related pattern section

Chips are compact, interactive elements commonly used in user interfaces to represent information, choices, or actions in a concise format. They are versatile components that provide a visual and often interactive representation of data, such as tags, labels, or selections and are widely employed for content organization, categorization, and user interaction.

**Usage:** Chips offer users the ability to input data, make choices, fine-tune content searches, and initiate actions. In contrast to buttons, which are expected to have a consistent appearance and familiar action labels, chips are intended to dynamically appear as a cluster of multiple interactive elements. 

![Chip overview](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1149%3A41643&mode=design&t=ruQOzpPQJMKwnk8f-1)
 

1. Container 
2. Label text 

> 3. Leading icon or image (optional) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Leading icon (optional) 
```

- **Multiple:** to perform actions or apply filters simultaneously. In a photo editing app, multiple chips can be selected to apply different filters to an image, such as "Vintage," "Black and White," and "Sepia." 

- **Placement:** within the message input field in a messaging app provide quick access to emojis, stickers, or frequently used phrases.

- **Dismiss:** user clicks on the "X" icon or the close button, the task chip is dismissed from the list or interface. The dismissed task is removed visually, providing a sense of completion or removal.

## States  (Illustrate with UI) -Default ;-Hover -Focused -Active 

 Interactions such as color changes or animations, provide users with visual feedback, helping them understand the system's response to their actions. For instance, when a user hovers over a button chip and it subtly changes color, this interaction communicates that the button is interactive and ready for activation, enhancing user clarity and engagement.

![Chip states](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=1246%3A6190&mode=design&t=GHOok90R6TcaUrYi-1)

## Dos and Don'ts: 

> - Do use chips for tagging and categorization, allowing users to easily organize and filter content. For example, in a recipe app, chips can be used to categorize recipes by dietary preferences (e.g., vegan, gluten-free).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do use chips for tagging and categorization, allowing users to easily organize and filter content.
```

> - Do ensure proper color contrast between the chip background and the text/icon to improve readability. For instance, using a dark-colored chip with light-colored text/icons ensures accessibility for users with visual impairments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do ensure proper color contrast between the chip background and the text/icon when using custom variants of chips to improve readability. 
```

> - Do consider the size and spacing of chips to ensure they are easy to tap or click on mobile and desktop interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do consider the spacing of chips to ensure they are easy to tap or click on mobile and desktop interfaces.
```

> - Don't overuse chips, as it can lead to a cluttered interface and overwhelm users. For instance, in a messaging app, using chips for every single message could make the conversation hard to read and navigate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Don't overuse chips, as it can lead to a cluttered interface and overwhelm users.
```

> - Don`ts use different shapes, sizes, and colors for chips with similar purposes, creating inconsistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Don`t use different styles for chips with similar purposes or meanings to avoid creating inconsistency.
```
